





                                The Circular File


               When I was a young man in college everything that
          happened happened on paper. That meant that our professors
          received information in the form of letters and memos, rather
          than emails and chats. They would skim over these documents
          and if they deemed one of them unimportant it went into the
          circular file. As a student, you might have also encounter
          the circular file. For instances, say you wanted to miss
          class next Friday to spend a three-day weekend with your
          family. So you make the mistake of bringing in a note from
          your parents to excuse you from class. Believe me, that note
          would have ended up in the circular file. By now I am sure
          you have figured out that the circular file was a euphemism
          for the round metal trash bin next to the professor's desk.

               So this is The Circular File. It is the receptacle for
          all of the intellectual thoughts swirling around in my head.
          Why should you read what you find here? You shouldn't. You
          should go elsewhere to find intellectually stimulating
          material written by someone who knows how to write.

               One last note on the circular file. The term circular is
          used to refer to information that is published on a periodic
          based. As an example, the ads that used to appear in the
          Sunday paper were called the "Sunday circular". I think that
          colleges and businesses used to have circulars in the form of
          printed daily bulletins, monthly news letters, and
          semi-regular memos from the Dean and President. The
          information for these circulars would have to be collected
          and stored somewhere before they were typed up and printed.
          This storage area would have been the actual circular file
          and the origination of the joke of calling the trash bin the
          circular file. This is just a conjecture of mine. I have no
          proof, but is seems plausible.





















          (C) 2025 The Circular File


