






               Today I did something that provided astonishing insight
          into my life. Astonishing because I wasn't expecting to gain
          so much from it. I created a weekly schedule consisting of
          seven columns, one for each day of the week starting on
          Monday and ending on Sunday. Ending on Sunday kept the
          weekend days together which I like more than starting the
          week on Sunday and ending it on Saturday. To the left of
          these seven columns I created another column and in this
          column I added the hours of the day starting at 00:00
          (midnight) and ending at 23:00. This created a grid of the
          hours in each day. In the cells I wrote one or two words to
          describe what I do during that hour on that day. For
          instance, the first cell in the top-left corner is 00:00 on
          Monday so in this cell I wrote SLEEP.

               I work a job with steady hours Monday through Friday. I
          start work each day at 7:00, have lunch at 12:00, and then
          work three more hours from 13:00 to 16:00. So from 7:00 to
          12:00 and from 13:00 to 16:00 I wrote WORK, and from 12:00 to
          13:00 I wrote LUNCH, for each day Monday through Friday. The
          lunch hour is protected time for me because too many people
          will think nothing of scheduling meetings at this time unless
          you do something about.

               During the week I like to go to bed at 22:00 but start
          getting ready around 21:00. So for Monday through Friday I
          wrote READY FOR BED in the 21:00 cell. I wake up at 5:30, but
          since my grid was hourly, not half-hourly, I wrote SLEEP in
          all the cells from 22:00 through 4:00. That provided seven
          hours of sleep each day during the week. After that things
          started to get more interesting.

               I work in the information technology field and I like my
          profession so wanted to reserve time for learning and
          research. I also wanted to reserve time in case I had to
          bring work home with me from the office. So on Monday and
          Tuesday I wrote WORK/PROFESSIONAL from the hours of 18:00 to
          20:00. I also have my own intellectual pursuits that I like
          to attend to on Sunday mornings. So on Sunday from 9:00 to
          11:00 I wrote INTELLECTUAL. On Saturday mornings I usually
          have free time from 9:00 to 11:00, so I wrote OPEN, meaning
          that that time was reserved for WORK, PROFESSIONAL, or
          INTELLECTUAL pursuits depending on the circumstances.

               Next I reserved time for exercise and visiting my mother
          which I do twice a week. With all of the preceding cells
          filled in there were still blank cells. For instances, the
          5:00 and 6:00 hours during the week. I could have filled
          these in with COMMUTE and SHOWER, or the word TOILET in the
          old sense of the word, but decided to just write the word
          LIFE. I used the same word for Saturday night. I could have
          used the word FUN or FRIENDS, but life seemed a better word
          since it was more open to different uses of the time. So that












          is how I completed the grid. I wrote LIFE in all the cells
          that I had not reserved for something else. I wrote this all
          down in pencil then transferred it to a spreadsheet program
          on the computer. I kept all the words and added some color
          coding to make it more visual. I printed it off, laid it on
          my desk, and stared at it. It was the first time I had ever
          laid out my life like this. This same weekly pattern could be
          repeated over and over again with only minor variations. I
          grabbed a pencil and seeked across the grid until I came to
          the cell representing the current time and day. It told me
          exactly what I should be doing - what the time was reserved
          for.

               I came a way from this with a few observations. First, I
          only had about twelve hours outside of my working hours that
          I could reasonably reserve for work, professional, or
          intellectual activities. I thought there was much more than
          that. Second, there were a lot of cells with LIFE written in
          them. So it seemed logical that to lead a good life I need to
          make the most of this time. I need to fill it up with happy
          activities like dinners with friends or watching a good movie
          with my wife, or if there is nothing going on, transfer the
          time to another category, in other words use if for work and
          study. But that is secondary. Life comes first. And finally
          all the time is negotiable. Sure, maybe I reserved Monday
          evening for a professional online training course, but if my
          brother texts me to ask if I could help him with his car,
          then that is what I do. It's all flexible and negotiable. But
          is is astounding to me to see it laid out this way. To see
          how the hours of the week flow from day to day and how much
          or how little time is actually available.





























